simulating strictly come dancing on a
computer may seem like a frivolous thing
to do and to be perfectly honest it
probably is but if you look hard enough
behind this you'll find some serious
maths this is an example of a branch of
mathematics called frequency probability
and in frequency probability the chance
of an event occurring in a situation is
how often it occurs in a large number of
trials of that situation so I've just
finished running 10,000 virtual versions
of the Strictly Come Dancing semi-final
specifically looking for ties to find
out how likely it was that they would
have had the problems they had on
Saturday night and looking at the
results here what you'll find is twenty
two point six percent of the time a
two-way tie occurs and just scrolling up
and down the results you'll see it
actually happens much more often than
you would expect by intuition and that's
because the judges scores narrow as they
go towards the end of the series so the
real range of scores they use is much
less than the full range of 0 to 40 now
what this system uses is something
called the law of large numbers which
means that the larger the number of
times you run the simulation the more
accurate your estimation of the results
so in the best BBC traditions his a few
outcomes that I prepared earlier so when
you look at the trial run only a hundred
times it says it comes up nineteen
percent of the time or 28 items of
nineteen percent of the time if you look
at it for a thousand times it says 23.8
but 10,000 times 23.3 and for a hundred
thousand times 22.6 the largest number
of times we've run this program is 10
million and it seems to converge on a
figure of about twenty two point eight
percent chance of a two-way tie in the
Strictly Come Dancing semi-final the
important thing to remember is that it's
not just any old to wait I that causes
problems for strictly it's specifically
a tie for first place that's half the
ties we're looking at here so the real
chances of them running into the
problems they run into last Saturday we
think are between one and eight and one
in nine based on our simulation
you